# Project Proposal Document

### Description
Many existing mobile photo editing apps are centered around allowing the user to adjust the color and lighting of the photo. For example, Instagram allows the user to apply filters, adjust brightness, contrast, saturation, etc. It is less common, however, for these photo editing apps to also support actions such as selecting an area of the image and copying it onto another image, or pinching and stretching the image. These features would cater to an end user who wishes to create images for marketing, art, or just for fun. In an increasingly mobile world, these functionalities need to be easily accessible from a mobile application.      

The mobile application will be an Android application that will allow users to upload their own photos and then edit them with all of the above listed actions. The application will allow the user to save the edited image to the application’s native photo library or export it to the user’s phone’s photo library. The application will allow the user to adjust contrast, saturation, brightness and temperature. It will have filters that can be applied to the image in various strengths. It will have the capability to copy and paste selections of images onto each other, and it will have the capability to pinch and stretch areas of the image. It will have a brush action that will allow the user to “paint on” color to the photo, and it will have an eraser action that will allow the user to erase pixels. 

### Justification
Making an Android application to edit photos makes use of the knowledge I have learned in various courses I have taken at LMU, as well as through summer internships. Android applications are coded in Java, which I have learned and exercised in Programming Lab (CMSI 186), Data Structures, Algorithms, and Programming Languages. Since the application’s purpose is to apply transformations onto photos, I will also make use of knowledge from the Graphics course. This project will likely make use of the coding practices and design I made use of in CMSI 401 as well.       

This project allows me to expand on that knowledge by applying graphics and Java in a new way - an Android application, which I have never created from scratch before. The difficulty is appropriate because I have some experience with Android development from a summer internship. One semester should be a sufficient amount of time. Since this is an application that can have few or many features, it can be expanded or limited to fit the time constraints. All I need is a computer to create this application, since android emulators exist. This project is interesting to me because it is an application that I would make use of. 	
